# FOSDEM - pretalx meeting 2022-03-25

Major shortcomings/open questions in pretalx:
* the changelog in pentabarf is implemented on the database level, which means that even bulk updates are present. It is often checked if problems occur to see what caused the issue. Even though prtealx contains an event history (eg `https://pretalx.fosdem.org/orga/event/fosdem_2023/history/` ) it is much less detailed and will not work for direct datbaase updates.
* It is unclear what the best release strategy would be when we have different devroom managers editing the schedule at the same time. 
* A good understanding when mails are sent.

Nice to haves:
As a general note, it was mentioned that we must take care not to have too much feature bloat before deciding to transition to pretalx. Nevertheless some things to consider:
* Check if it is possible to use a different authentication source: ideally the same login can be reused for pretalx/volunteers/...
* similar to penta, permissions for scheduling is not limited by track. Ideally allow to Iimit scheduling for a devroom manager to a certain room + time
* global cfp or cfp per track?
* are short talk IDs unique (in XML)?
* reuse biography from previous editions
* see history of speaker in previous conferences
* check for double assigned speakers (with some padding to switch rooms)

* list of integration we have:
 * website: uses integration with yaml because xml does not contain all details. Ideally nanoc up fetches the data from pretalx rather than accessing the database itself. Some changes, eg live video urls are only added to the yaml currently.
  * video (uses xml)
  * video review (uses xml + direct database access for updates)
  * apps (use xml)
  * print schedules for devroom doors/lightning talks (uses yaml)
  * matrix
  * volunteers: users can get matrix permission if they are infodesk-virtual volunteers or moderators of virtual tracks. Their penta-id is linked to their userid (not automatically)
  * hotel/costs integration
  * devroom manager interface for changing speaker/slide + room open/full api (currently not integrated, but could benefit from doing so)

Timeline FOSDEM

* Freeze old version
* Apply for new devrooms
        * Ideally already using pretalx logins
* Open for CfP
        * Option to have a CfP per track?
        * Only one CfP date (perhaps a feature?)
        * require osi licensed
* Review per track / move talks to other tracks
        * what about duplicate tracks?

* Decide & schedule talks
        * when to send messages?
        * publish automatically?
        * when published?
        * ideally a devroom manager can only schedule in his assigned room
        * check for double assigned devroom speaker (conflicts)

    * extra: padding between talks for the same speaker (allows switching rooms)

* Freeze with amendements
* live video
* video review
* video recordings
* feedback


Decisions:
* Set up https://github.com/FOSDEM/pretalx-integration repo for logging issues/any code developed (done)
* Update testing instance to main branch (done)
* Rename testing instance to pretalx-test.f.o to avoid confusion
* Discuss the two major shortcomings with the pretalx main dev
* Work on the website integration - it can publish to staging.fosdem.org
* set up a fake event happening in april so we can test all stages
* invite devroom managers who want to join testing.
* next meeting on 2023-03-19 - make sure we have an event with different roles to test. 
